# Installation with GIMI integration

_All the instruction & script sample here assume that you are in the user's home directory if not specified_

## OS

Hopefully you are running a very latest stable Linux release.

## RVM

Refer to RVM official site for details.

Make sure you got RVM installed and configured properly.

Make sure you installed both ruby 1.8.7 and ruby 1.9.3.

## Install OMF EC 5.4

Install ec using git, packages will NOT work.

    git clone git://git.mytestbed.net/omf.git

    cd omf

    git checkout labwiki

    # verify you are in labwiki branch
    git branch

Now goes back to home directory. Create a temporary folder with a Gemfile inside.

    mkdir omf_5_gems

    cd omf_5_gems

    touch Gemfile

Then add the following to the Gemfile, save it.

    source 'https://rubygems.org'
    gem "xmpp4r", "0.5"
    gem "log4r",  "1.1.8"
    gem "wss4r",  "0.5"
    gem "rdp-rb-readline",  "0.2.0.1"
    gem "activesupport",  "3.0.0"
    gem "gratr",  "0.4.3"
    gem "oml4r"
    gem "sequel",  "3.40.0"
    gem "json",  "1.7.5"
    gem "pg"

Then use RVM to switch to ruby 1.8.7

    rvm use 1.8.7

    # check ruby version is 1.8.7
    ruby -v

    bundle

    # check gems have been installed properly against Gemfile
    gem list

## Get Labwiki & omf-web source

Now switch to ruby 1.9.3

    rvm use 1.9.3

    # check ruby version is 1.9.3
    ruby -v

Get omf web source

    git clone https://github.com/mytestbed/omf_web.git
    cd omf_web
    bundle
    bundle update

Get labwiki source

    git clone https://github.com/mytestbed/labwiki.git
    cd labwiki
    bundle update
    export LABWIKI_TOP=`pwd`

## Get gimi experiment service

Ensure you are still use ruby 1.9.3

Get omf sfa source

    git clone https://github.com/mytestbed/omf_sfa.git
    cd omf_sfa
    export OMF_SFA_HOME=`pwd`
    bundle
    bundle update

Get gimi exp service, you can use the source from a temp branch for testing purpose, but ultimately it will be your own implementation & instance.

    git clone https://github.com/jackhong/gimi_experiment_service.git ges_temp
    git checkout temp
    cd ges_temp
    bundle
    bundle update

Update lib/gimi/exp_service/server.rb to reflect your own testing data

    ruby -I lib -I $OMF_SFA_HOME/lib lib/gimi/exp_service.rb --test-load-state  --dm-auto-upgrade --disable-https start

Record its port number.

MAKE SURE it is running and working properly

## Configure & test run OMF EC

Then switch to ruby 1.8.7
    rvm use 1.8.7

    cd labwiki/test/omf_exec

Find etc/omf-expctl.norbit.yaml, and update it to suit your environment. Things you mostly likely to change are:

    repository:
      path:

    omluri:

    xmpp:
      pubsub_gateway:

Verify these settings carefully.

Then run a oidl experiment script

    bash -l omf_exec-norbit.sh your_script.rb

MAKE SURE, DOUBLE CHECK that it runs properly and it creates OML database and have measurement data stored correctly.

## Test OML dump script

    cd labwiki/test

Edit oml-irods-dumper.sh and make sure you have these variables correct

    irodsHost
    irodsPort
    PGDATAPATH

Make sure you have these information with you, and verify them:

* OML server is using postgres

* You know the postgres server uri & port number.

* You know the postgres username & password

* Postgres server has been configured allow you to login remotely

* You have pg\_dump installed

* You have irods commands installed, configured and you can accesss irods

Then in your home directory, create a file called .pgpass, storing your postgres credential

    touch .pgpass
    chmod 600 .pgpass

Add following to the file, save.

    <db_host>:<port>:*:<username>:<password>

Then try the script

    bash  oml2-irods-dumper.sh --domain <oml exp id> --path <irods path> --token <idos token>

MAKE SURE, DOUBLE CHECK that it got the sql dump & write to irods successfully.

## Now configure Labwiki

Now examine labwiki/test/test\_gimi.yaml

Make sure you configure EVERYTHING correctly to meet your environment.

* oml: section here refers to oml's postgres database host, user & password
* ges: where your gimi experiment service is hosting
* mocking: ture means all logged in users will act as user 'user1', which should be included in gimi exp service's default data. Set this to false when you are ready to test real data.

    labwiki:
      plugins:
        experiment:
          ec_runner: ~/labwiki/test/omf_exec/omf_exec-norbit.sh
          oml:
            host: norbit.npc.nicta.com.au
            user: oml2
            pwd: bob
      # This is added temporarily for gimi integration
      gimi:
        irods: true
        ges: http://localhost:8023
        # If use mocked data
        mocking: true

        # Path to the magic OML sql dump script
        dump_script: ~/labwiki/test/oml2-irods-dumper.sh

## Run Labwiki
Now again, DOUBLE CHECKING EVERYTHING ELSE is working properly.

Switch to ruby 1.9.3

    rvm use 1.9.3

    cd labwiki

    ruby -I lib -I ../omf_web/lib lib/labwiki.rb --lw-config test/config/test_gimi.yaml start

Finger crossed.

Now try it in the browser.

## Future redeployment

You probably noticed that we run everything from the source (except OML), so to do re-deployment, simply go to the repository directory, kill the process and update the repo by:

    cd <code repository>
    git stash
    git fetch origin
    git merge origin/master
    git stash pop

Then re-run whatever you need to run.


